Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to show you a 2016 American
psychological horror-thriller film titled
Split.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
An aloof girl named Casey sits blankly in
a restaurant for her classmate's birthday.
After the party, the birthday girl, Claire,
tells her father that it was tormenting that
she had to invite her out of mercy.
Casey boringly calls her guardians on her
phone to pick her up from the restaurant.
Casey doesn't belong to any circle because
she was detached and troublesome.
She had no one else to go home with.
Claire's father ignores his daughter's sentiment
and waits if Casey can ride home along with
her guardians.
Unfortunately, her guardian's car broke down.
She has decided to take the bus, but Claire's
kind father insists on driving her home instead.
Claire and Casey board the car along with
Marcia, Claire's best friend.
Casey sits next to the driver's seat while
the two girls chitchat their way to the backseat.
Claire's father stops for the car's compartment
and unloads packs of food and gifts when an
unknown person approaches him.
The compartment is closed with a loud thud,
and a different man climbs into the driver's
seat.
The confused and suspecting Casey stares nervously
at the man.
It wasn't Claire's dad.
Claire stalls the man by telling him that
he got in the wrong car.
Casey freezes when the man wears a face mask
and sprays a substance to Claire and Marcia.
The two girls have been knocked out of consciousness.
Casey tries to obliviously break free, but
the man knocks her out swiftly before she
could.
Casey redeems her consciousness in a room
with a few rays of light.
Claire is cowardly embracing Marcia.
Before they could even engage in a sensible
conversation, the sole door in the room opens.
A man with an eyeglass and a sleek look enters
and takes Marcia with him.
It was Kevin in the Dennis persona.
After a brief while, he brings back the crying
Marcia and angrily grunts while closing the
door.
Marcia briefs Claire and Casey that Dennis
wanted her to dance for him, but she peed
on herself.
As Claire reassures the two others that they're
all going to be okay, a traumatized Casey
shakes as she storms off to a distant childhood
memory.
A bulky man named Uncle John was telling a
hunting tale to a little Casey in a restaurant.
She was with her father that day, and she
thought nothing could go wrong.
Meanwhile, in a psychotherapy clinic, the
news of the three teenager's abduction breaks
out.
An old psychotherapist named Karen draws to
her computer and sees that a patient named
Barry books an appointment to see her.
In isolation, Claire is urging Marcia and
Casey to fight back if their kidnapper attempts
to lay hold on one of them again.
Casey is thinking rationally and carefully
and denies Claire's solution to the predicament.
Claire thinks they are running out of time,
so the three must make a painful move towards
Dennis.
Apparently, Claire assumes that Casey was
troublesome and resistant again, given their
situation.
Because they still don't know what the circumstances
are, Casey reassures them that she will help
them out after a thorough conception of the
solution.
The little Casey was in a tent in the middle
of the woods.
Her father was with her, holding a gun and
teaching her how to hunt her victim.
In Dr Karen's clinic, a man wearing a bonnet
and a loose coat appears with a respectful
knock.
It was the abductor.
Barry tells her that he had a fashion inspiration.
Doctor Karen flips through the colourful pages
of his illustrations.
She tries to vibe, asking him leading questions
to uncover the character behind his lines.
She tells a lie about his workplace, but he
stalls her by faking a worrying sentiment.
The loose and spontaneous Barry starts acknowledging
some sign of a personality shift when he moved
Karen's stuff into the proper spaces and left
his sketches carelessly.
He steers clear from Dr Karen's clinic.
The girls are still prying on the door's small
space and capture that a lady was staying
with their abductor.
The lady was talking to Dennis, which the
girls think was their abductor's name.
The lady draws closer to the door and opens
it.
It was their abductor wearing a tight red
turtleneck, a long skirt and heels, in Patricia's
persona.
The flabbergasted teenagers step back slowly,
all of them confused as to why he was in a
lady’s disguise.
The lady reassures them that there was nothing
to worry about because Dennis listens very
well to her.
She claims that Dennis is neither going to
malign nor assault them and shuts the door
close.
Dr Karen meets with a colleague doctor in
town and discusses the pieces of evidence
of Dissociative Identity Disorder.
The colleague doctor believes Karen's patients
are not cut out of the normal, but Karen perceives
them differently.
In their windowless room, Marcia and Claire
figure out that Dennis is having an entire
conversation with a make-believe character.
While discussing, a man enters their bathroom
with a pail.
It was Kevin back to his Dennis identity.
He rants how dirty the bathroom was and asks
them to draw close and clean it.
He reassures the girls that he will no longer
touch any of them as he agreed with Patricia.
However, he mentions that they will be a sacred
feast and leaves them wondering who is going
to consume the three of them.
Later that night, Claire and Marcia disturb
Casey from slumber and points towards the
door.
There appears the abductor in a yellow windbreaker,
sitting happily in the open door.
It was Hedwig, Dennis’ 9-year-old playful
and childish identity.
He repetitively warns them that someone is
on the move.
By this time, they already knew that their
abductor wasn’t faking out his characters.
The girls notice how submissive and gullible
he is, and asks him questions to find leads.
Casey befriends him and asks him to come close
so she could whisper through his ear clearly.
Casey tries to reverse-engineer the situation
with Hedwig, but the playful identity believes
she was lying outright.
He innocently reveals that Dennis had been
stalking Marcia and Claire for days, and he
planned the abduction for a long time.
Casey fibs that Patricia and Dennis were lying
to him and were planning to send Hedwig instead
for the sacred feast.
She calculatingly convinces him that the girls
in the room are Hedwig's babysitters who are
willing to protect him from Patricia and Dennis,
but he needs to teach them the way out immediately
so they could save him too.
The cynical Hedwig shifts his pace back to
the door and closes it.
As Casey peeks through the cracks, she gets
a view of Hedwig fumbling to unlock the second
door.
The girls start knocking the drywall across
the entire room.
Claire finds a weak spot in the ceiling and
tears the ceiling apart with her heels.
Hedwig returns to the room and demands the
girls to let him in.
Claire uninstalls a portion of the steel grid
on the ceiling while the two budges the door
against the angry Hedwig.
Hedwig changes into Dennis and opens the door
with all his might.
Claire climbs up and navigates the way across
the ceiling, where a shouting Dennis screams
and chases for her.
She hides in a locker carefully, but Dennis
finds her and demands her to step out of the
vault.
He asks her to undo her sweaters and takes
her to a separate room which he carefully
locked.
He returns to Marcia and Casey's room and
repairs the ceiling, warning them that Claire
will be locked away from them.
He also demands them to undress their skirts
and sweaters.
Meanwhile, Dr Karen is doing a video conference
with his fellow psychotherapists from Paris.
She discusses the clinical evidence among
her patients with Dissociative Identity Disorder
and the realm of possibilities of unlocking
all the identities that the brain can possess.
After the conference, Barry pays her a visit,
but she quickly discerns that he was in a
different persona.
Dr Karen tricks him that she wanted to talk
to his other personalities, but Barry rebuffs.
She guesses that it was Dennis taking over
Barry's clothing.
Barry reiterates that neither Dennis nor Patricia
is taking over him because they are unstable
and not allowed to exhibit themselves in public.
Barry is getting frustrated while Karen is
challenging him.
After the session, Dr Karen checks over the
CCTV and conceives that Dennis or Patricia
was really doing an act while taking over
Barry's identity.
Marcia figures out that they need to find
an escape route while they are still alive.
While she is talking, Casey dozes off in a
trance of the little Casey on a hunting trip
with her father and Uncle John.
His father just killed a deer in the forest.
Patricia feeds Marcia and grooms Casey and
Marcia.
She invites them out for a proper meal in
the kitchen because they were good girls,
unlike the isolated Claire.
While Patricia prepares the meal, Marcia makes
a daring move to slam Patricia with a stool.
Dennis takes over and demands Casey to lock
herself in the room and finds the trembling
Marcia.
He locks her to a separate room as a punishment.
Dennis warns Casey that the Beast is coming
to feast on them.
On another hunting trip, the little Casey
was staring into the woods while her father
was taking a nap.
Her uncle John holds a gun in front of the
innocent child.
Casey wakes up with Hedwig embracing her from
behind.
Hedwig reveals that Barry and Patricia decide
who stay in the light, but Hedwig is different.
He also says that only Patricia and Dennis
believe in the existence of the Beast.
Unsure of who the Beast is and what it truly
was, Casey asks him if he has ever seen the
Beast.
Hedwig diverts her attention by asking permission
to kiss her.
She awkwardly permits him.
After agreeing that he was a good kisser,
she asks him if Hedwig could sneak her up
to his room where they could dance and listen
to music.
But Hedwig leaves for Barry's appointment
with Dr Karen.
During the session, Dr Karen talks to Dennis
instead of Barry, insinuating that his beliefs
are absurd, just like what Barry reported
in the previous sessions.
She compliments Dennis to make him trust her.
She discloses that if Dennis does not open
up, all the other identities will eventually
take over the light all at once.
Dennis opens up that he and Patricia were
ridiculed by all the twenty-two different
identities.
The reason why he was changing acts deliberately
is to protect the weak Kevin.
She challenges him to tell the Beast's story,
which she believes to be just Dennis' and
Patricia's fantasy.
After the session, Hedwig takes Casey to his
room, where she hesitantly enters.
Hedwig insanely dances to the loud, booming
noise from the stereo.
After dancing, he points towards his sketched
window and accuses Casey of leaving through
it.
Hedwig hands Casey a walkie-talkie from Dennis.
Casey dials in and reports the situation to
the man answering the recipient walkie talkie,
but Hedwig takes back the walkie talkie.
He escorts Casey to her room.
Dennis appears in his usual formal wear and
eyeglasses.
He explains that the Beast is going to be
pleased once the night is over.
Uncle John was hiding behind a big rock and
calls the little Casey, who was walking in
the forest without his father.
He was on his birth suit and asks Casey to
undress, teaching her that they were playing
animal roles who had no clothes on.
When he was done, Casey waited just above
his hideout, holding a rifle.
Casey loaded it and aimed it at Uncle John,
who quickly pulled it from her for safety.
In the middle of the evening, Dr Karen visits
Dennis in his house.
Dennis takes her to Barry's room and starts
spilling out the familiar tale of Kevin's
traumatizing childhood.
Dennis came to Kevin's salvage to please his
mother with organization and accuracy.
Dr Karen dispels his fears by convincing him
that Kevin can be rescued in other ways without
the 23 different personalities.
Dennis puts her off by depicting the Beast's
resemblance.
Dr Karen mentions the beast feasting on the
impure young women, but Dennis is hesitant
to elaborate.
Unprepared and scared, Dr Karen halts the
conversation for a proper session.
She leaves for the bathroom and surveys the
rooms across the hallway.
She finds Claire in one of his rooms, but
he wings her off using a toxic spray.
Casey strives to unlock the door from the
insides while the two others buy time to get
themselves freed.
Dennis goes to a mall for a bouquet of flowers.
While he is on his way home, Casey gets into
a room with a computer, where she discovers
all the videos of the 23 distinct identities.
Dennis rides into an abandoned train car,
where he transformed into the 24th identity.
He grows taller and bulkier, and he also moves
wilder than any of the 23 personalities.
He sprints home as the dreaded Beast.
Karen wakes up and writes down notes at one
of his tables.
She takes a bread knife with blurred vision
and stabs him from behind, but the blade splits
into pieces.
The Beast squashes the crying doctor to death.
After watching the videos, Casey figures out
the location of the keys and hovers silently
around the hallways to search for Marcia and
Claire.
Marcia has already been wrenched with blood
in one of the rooms.
Claire was alive in one of the rooms, but
the Beast drags her and consumes her organs.
Casey finds a note from Karen but gets stalled
in horror when the Beast starts crawling the
wall.
She begins muttering his name repetitively,
getting louder each time she sees him weaken.
Kevin, the original identity, takes over the
body as he remembers how his abusive mother
call him out with a whip.
Kevin has no awareness of what the other identities
did.
Kevin begs Casey to shot him with a gun in
a cabinet but stops her briefly.
Casey witnesses how the kind Kevin shifts
to all the significant identities at once.
While Hedwig is on the light, Casey searches
for the gun.
Casey realizes he's going to transform into
the Beast soon, so she runs across the rooms
and probes for bullets.
The Beast has already changed, and before
Casey could load all the shell, the Beast
grabs her and rips her sweater apart.
She redeems the gun from the floor and stands
back up to lock the cage.
With wounded calves, she drags herself to
the farther corner of the cell.
Little Casey was sitting quietly when Uncle
John appeared from behind.
It was her father’s funeral.
Uncle John promised her that he will take
good care of her.
She aims at the Beast, who is moving swiftly
in the dark alley.
Just like how she was taught to hunt, she
fires at the Beast.
With only two bullets in her gun, Casey soon
realizes that the Beast is invincible.
The Beast warps the bars with his bare hands,
but he gets a view of the scars on her body.
With Casey's purity, the Beast steps back
to leave her alone.
Later on, a man comes to the basement and
notices Casey's figure in the cage.
He assists her away from the zoo's main enclosure.
While a medical officer attends to Casey,
the policemen probe Kevin's possession in
the basement.
Kevin gets into an abandoned room, with all
the significant identities taking over the
light at once.
They are assessing Kevin's body with the evidence
of the Beast's invincibility.
A news anchor breaks out the awful news of
the three cases of murder of Kevin Crumb in
the zoo's basement.
The world of sceptical people has now been
made aware that the Dissociative Identity
Disorder really exists.